Hi. I'm David Arpin from
the Amazon SageMaker Team and
I'm here to talk to you
about a new capability,
SageMakers automated
model tuning.
So Amazon SageMaker
at a high level is
Machine Learning
platform that we've
designed to make it very
easy to build, train,
and deploy your Machine Learning
models to get them from
idea into production as quickly
and easily as possible.
These three components are
interconnected, but independent.
So you can use one or more
of them to suit your needs.
For the build component, we
have the ability to very
quickly and easily set up
an instance that's running
a Jupyter notebook server.
Which is an interactive
environment designed
for data scientists
to explore data,
create Markdown
and documentation,
and interactive
visualizations of data.
The next component would
be training which is
a distributed managed environment
that when you create
a training job,
we spin up a cluster of
training instances for you.
We load a Docker container
that has an algorithm within it.
We bring in data from S3,
we train that algorithm,
we output the artifacts
back to S3 and then
tear-down the cluster without you
having to think
about any of that.
We manage that process
on your behalf.
The deploy component is
that once you've
trained your model,
you can easily deploy it to
a real-time production endpoint.
Then invoke that endpoint to get
real-time predictions from
that machine learning model.
On top of these core components,
we have additional layers.
So we have Custom Provided
SageMaker Algorithms
and these have been
designed from the ground up with
advancements in science
and engineering.
The methodology is
slightly different.
It's designed to be more
scalable, more efficient,
as well as engineering
advancements to use things like
GPU acceleration and train
in a distributed setting.
We also have pre-built
deep learning frameworks
for TensorFlow,
MXNet, Pytorch, and Chainer.
These frameworks allow you
to very quickly and easily
write the code that you would
naturally for those
deep-learning frameworks.
Then deploy them to SageMaker
without having to
think about Managing
the Container and knowing
that the container that
we've set up for you and
pre-built will allow
you to train in
a distributed setting and take
advantage of other nice
functionalities within
each framework.
Then finally, you have
the ability to bring your
own Docker container.
So you can code up
your own algorithm,
package it up in a
Docker container,
and still take
advantage of SageMakers
managed training and
hosting environments.
Then on top of all
of those is tuning.
So SageMakers automated
model tuning is
a service that wraps up
training jobs and works
with the custom algorithms,
the pre-built deep
learning frameworks,
or bring your own,
in order to help you find
the best hyperparameters
and improve the performance
of your machine learning model.
So let's dig into
SageMaker's automated model
tuning in more detail.
What are hyperparameters first?
Hyperparameters help you tune
your machine learning model in
order to get the
best performance.
So if you're building
a neural network,
you may want to tune
your learning rate,
which is the size of
updates you make to
the weights each
iteration or each
pass through your network.
The number of layers, so how deep
or shallow your
neural network is.
Whether you're using
regularization and drop-out,
which regularization
will penalize
large weights and drop-out
will actually drop nodes
out of your network to
prevent over fitting.
So these hyperparameters
are important to make
sure that you get the best
predictive performance out
of your neural network.
Hyperparameters are also used in
other machine learning
algorithms things like trees.
So if you're fitting
a decision tree or
a random forest or a gradient
boosted ensemble of trees.
The number of trees is important.
So do you want one
tree or many tree,
how deep each tree should be.
So do you want a smaller
number of very deep trees
or a much larger number
of very shallow trees?
What your boosting step size is,
so from round to
round of boosting,
how much you change.
These things are all
very impactful from
a supervised learning
perspective in
how your model performs.
But even with unsupervised
machine learning techniques
like clustering there are
still hyperparameters.
For clustering, maybe the number
of clusters you want at the end,
how you want to initialize
the seeds in your
clustering process,
and whether you want to
pre-transform or pre-process
the data prior to using
the clustering algorithm.
So when we think about the
hyperparameter space and
what we need to do to change
these hyperparameters in
order to get a better fit,
it's important to think
and realize that there's
a very large influence of
hyperparameters on the
overall model performance.
At the plot on the
right, you can see that
we're training the
neural network and we're
varying the embedding
size and the hidden size.
You can see the
validation F1 score,
which is a measure of our
accuracy plot along the z-axis.
So we want the best accuracy
we can get out of this model and
we've tested a lot of
different potential options for
these two hyperparameter values.
You can see that
the difference is
10 points on this F1 score.
So varying these hyperparameters
can make a very big difference
in performance which
can obviously make
a big difference in
your bottom line
from the predictions
that you're generating
from these models.
The hyperparameter space
also grows exponentially.
So here we've plotted
to hyperparameters.
But if we wanted to train
more hyperparameters,
we would have to evaluate
more and more and more points
every time in order to
create a plot like this.
So it gets very hard
as we want to tune
a large number of hyperparameters
to do that efficiently.
There's also non-linearities and
interactions between
the hyperparameters.
So you can see that
the embedding size
and hidden size have
some interaction
where when you change
one parameter without
changing the other,
you have one result,
but when you change
them both together,
you get a different result.
In addition, there's
non-linearities,
meaning that you can't
just continue to
increase one hyperparameter value
and always expect to
get better performance.
You'll increase it up
to a certain point,
at which point in time,
you'll have either
diminishing returns or
even have worse results.
Finally, each point along
this chart would be an
expensive evaluation.
We will have to
retrain the model for
those hyperparameter
value combinations.
So depending on our model
complexity and our data size,
that can be very expensive to
calculate different types of
hyperparameter combinations.
So we want to
take a process of tuning
these hyperparameters.
There are several common
ways of tuning them.
The first would be manual.
You start with the default
values of the hyperparameters,
you make a couple of
guesses and check and
eventually converge on a set
of hyperparameter values that
you're comfortable with.
The second would be to use
a data scientist
experience or intuition.
If they've seen a problem
like this before in the past,
they may be able to pick
hyperparameters more
successfully for future cases.
There also may be heuristics
where you can tune
one hyperparameter
value first and
then subsequently train a
second and then a third.
These tend to require someone
with an advanced skill
set in machine learning to
do this process though.
The second method would be
brute force and there are
three common sub-classes.
This is grid, random, and sobol.
With grid, what we do is we try
a specific subset of
hyperparameter values
for each hyperparameter.
So you can see on the
chart at the right that we
have tried three values
of one hyperparameter and
three values of
another and we make
the combinatorial combination of
nine possible
hyperparameter pairs.
We try each of these in
a brute force sense.
The next method would be random,
where we just
randomly pick values
for each of the two
hyperparameters.
Although this sounds naive,
it's actually quite successful.
Then there's also
methodologies like
sobol which try and
blend the two of these,
where you're trying to fill
up the space like a grid,
but you add some randomness in.
The reason you want to add that
randomness in and the reason
that random hyperparameter
search can be
so effective is that very often,
we have one hyperparameter that
has a much larger impact on
the objective or
the training loss
or accuracy of our model.
Whatever value you are
trying to improve most.
Because of that,
random will actually
try a much larger number of
distinct values in that parameter
and will explore that
space better than
grid where you've predefined
a very specific subset
of values which
may miss out on the
best performance.
Finally, there's the
meta model approach,
which actually tries
to build another
machine learning model on
top of your first machine
learning model to predict which
hyperparameters
are going to yield
the best potential accuracy
or objective metric results.
That's the method
that SageMaker takes,
and SageMaker uses Gaussian
process regression model
to model objective metric
as a function of your
hyperparameters.
So it's trying to predict
what your accuracy or what
your training loss
is going to be as
a function of
hyperparameter values.
This is a good method that
assumes some smoothness.
So for a small change in
hyperparameter value,
you won't have a
drastically wild change
in your objective metric.
It works with very low data,
which is important because
as we mentioned earlier,
it's expensive to continue
training these models.
It provides you with some
estimate of confidence or
uncertainty as to what the value
of an objective metric would
be at different points,
at different
hyperparameter values.
Then once we build
that predictive model,
we use Bayesian optimization
to decide where we search next,
which hyperparameter value
combination we test next.
Bayesian optimization is great
because it works
in an explore and
exploit method where you
are both trying out a lot
of different
hyperparameter values,
and then when you find good ones,
you're testing very near,
nearby points that maybe
just slightly better.
So it does this very
natural nice combination
of using both of
those techniques.
It's also gradient free,
so we don't have to
understand exactly
how our objective metric
relates to our hyperparameters.
Because usually, that's unknown.
So it's important to have a
gradient free method
of optimization.
So going through a
very simple example,
we can see the dashed green line
here would be our objective.
In this case maybe that's
our Machine Learning
models training loss
or validation loss,
and we want to minimize that.
We want to have the
best model that
we can on our validation dataset,
and we have sampled
a couple of points.
One point at 0.5, and
one point at zero,
and our Gaussian
process regression
has built that black line,
which is its prediction
of what the objective
value might look like,
and you can see we
have those bands that
delineate how certain we are of
the values in-between the
points that we've tested along
this one hyperparameter that
varies between zero and 1.0.
The bottom plot has our
expected improvement,
and this is calculated by
the Bayesian
optimization portion,
to try and blend
the uncertainty that we
have with our prediction of
how good that loss might
be or how good our
objective metric might be,
in order to define where
the next point we test is.
So we always test
the next point where
we find our peak
expected improvement.
You can see in this case,
it's all of it at 1.0.
So we're trying the
ends of the spectrum.
We're still in the
exploration phase
of hyperparameter tuning.
We test at 1.0 and
find that our objective metric
is not very good in that space.
So the next space that we test,
is in-between our first
two points, zero and 0.5,
and we test that out
and find that we don't
have much improvement over our
pre-existing best
objective value.
So now we'll test in
between 0.5 and 1.0.
Now, we're starting to
see a real improvement.
So with a very small
number of iterations,
we've landed on a
hyperparameter setting
that would be very
good at optimizing
this objective function.
Now we transition into
the exploit phase and
it's all done naturally
by the algorithm,
where we're testing very close to
that new optimal
point that we found.
We test a little bit to
the left, no improvement.
So now, we test a
little bit to the right
and we find an improvement.
Within a very few
number of iterations,
we've already found this
optimum for this function,
despite the fact that we knew
nothing about it going in.
We didn't know its
functional form,
so we couldn't use a regular
optimization technique on it.
So how do we integrate SageMaker
hyperparameter tuning in to
the SageMaker automated
model tuning capability.
We mentioned before that it works
with SageMaker algorithms,
frameworks and bring
your own container.
So we think that's
very important.
It treats your algorithm like
a black box that it
can optimize over.
It doesn't have to know
exactly what's going on in
your algorithm in order to be
effective at tuning
its hyperparameters.
We also require flat
hyperparameters, are provided.
So those hyperparameters
can either be continuous.
They can take a
continuous numeric value,
they can take an
integer value or they
can take a categorical value,
one of a subset of
potential distinct values.
Then we have the fact
that we need your objective
metrics logged to CloudWatch.
So this happens naturally
with SageMaker training jobs.
Anything that you output will
be reported in CloudWatch.
So you can easily output
the objective metrics that
you want to optimize on,
and use a regex to scrape
that information out.
This is what allows us to be so
flexible and work in so
many different use cases,
is that these are the only
requirements in order to
train a model and use SageMaker's
automated model tuning.
So with that, let's transition
into a demonstration
of what SageMaker
automated model tuning
will look like in practice.
So we've opened up Amazon
SageMaker in the AWS console,
and I'll open up a notebook
instance that we have,
and go to one of the
examples that are available.
In this case, we're going to use
hyperparameter tuning with
mxnet gluon on cifar10.
As I mentioned,
hyperparameter tuning
works with the pre-built
pointing frameworks,
the custom algorithms and
bring your own capabilities.
But for this case, we'll use
our pre-built mxnet
container to do the project.
So we've opened up
the example notebook
that we have here,
and you can see we've pre-run
this notebook because,
as I mentioned,
hyperparameter tuning runs
a lot of different training jobs
which can be quite timely.
So we'll walk through a
pre-run version of this.
To give you a little
bit of background
on the tests that were
trying to complete,
is training a convolutional
neural network,
a ResNet 34 V2 on CIFAR10,
which is very common
computer vision
and classification benchmark.
We're going to compare
default hyperparameter values
to brute force tuning
through random search,
and then Amazon SageMaker is
automated model tuning as well.
So the first step in any
SageMaker notebook is set up.
So I'll import some of
the libraries that I
need and set up an IAM role,
which will grant me permissions
and access that I
need in order to
get my data and create
SageMaker training clusters.
I'll import some more libraries.
Here, I've brought in
an MXNet estimator from
a SageMaker Python SDK
that we've created.
I've brought in things
from the SageMaker
Python SDK that help us
with hyperparameter tuning and
running automated model
tuning jobs in SageMaker,
and then we've also
written our own library
called Random Tuner,
which I'll walk
through in more detail
and then I've brought in
some standard Python data
science libraries like
Pandas and Matplotlib.So digging
into the dataset that we have,
we're going to use CIFAR-10,
which as I mentioned
is very common
computer vision standard dataset,
and it's 32 by 32 pixel images.
They're evenly distributed
across 10 classes with
50,000 images that we'll
use to train our
convolutional network,
and then 10,000 images
that we'll use to test
its performance to see
how it performs on
images that hasn't seen,
and you can see a snapshot of
a sampling of some of
the images that we have.
Small images with
a pretty well-defined
pictures of airplanes,
automobile, bird, cat, deer,
dog, frog, horse, ship and truck.
So a broad spectrum
of items in the real world
that it has to classify into
one of those 10 classes.
We use a library to download
that data and now we
upload it back to S3
and by uploading back
to S3 this allows
SageMaker training to pick it
up and use it in
training scripts.
The next step is to
define our MXNet script,
and with the pre-built deep
learning framework containers
in SageMaker,
we have this capability to
write MXNet code naturally,
and then wrap it
up in a few small
functions to submit it to
our container which
allows us to train
in SageMaker's training
managed environment.
So the first function
we create is train,
and this function
defines our network.
You can see we're bringing in
ResNet34 from the
glue on Models Zoo,
it brings in our data,
and it actually starts
the training process.
The next function
that we have is Save.
So once we've returned
our trained neural network
from that training function,
we're going to save it in
a manner that we can then
access it later as a
model artifact in S3.
We also have a couple of other
helper functions called get data,
get test data, and
get train data,
and these are just ways of
getting those images that
are in S3 that SageMaker loads
to the training cluster,
and bringing them into MXNet in
an efficient iterative fashion,
and then we have our test
function which allows us to
monitor our accuracy on our
holdout sample of images,
and monitor our performance
of our network as we train it.
Then we also have hosting
functions here that
you don't need to use
for this example because
we're just doing
hyperparameter tuning,
but if you wanted to
host the output of
that model in a SageMaker
real-time endpoint,
you can do so by using
these hosting functions.
The next step is an
initial training job.
So what we'll do
here is we'll create
this MXNet estimator,
we'll pass in that
cifar10.py script that we
just talked through which
has our MXNet code,
we'll provide an [inaudible] role
for our access management,
we'll provide
the specifications for
our training cluster.
We're going to train on
one p3.8x large node,
and we provide a subset
of hyperparameters,
and here we're going
to specify batch size.
So it'll do 1,024
images per mini-batch.
We'll specify number of epochs,
so we're going to
train for 50 epochs.
So that's 50 full passes
through the dataset,
and then we'll specify
three key hyperparameters for
our convolutional neural network.
So the first is learning
rate which controls
our update size that we make
to the weights, each pass.
The second is momentum which uses
information from
our previous step
to inform our current step.
The final is weight decay
which penalizes weights
when they grow too large.
So we've created this
MXNet estimator,
and then by using.fit,
we pass in that S3 location,
the location of our images in S3,
and so we use.fit and
that creates the
SageMaker training job,
and it will go provision
those instances,
load that to pre-built deep
learning framework container,
start executing that
cifar10.py script,
and as that's executing,
logs from CloudWatch will be
printed here in the
example notebook.
So we can see our
setup and then we
can track from epoch
to epoch how our
performance is doing,
and we can see we start off with
a pretty low
validation accuracy of
only about 10 percent which
is about as good as
random guessing.
It's a rather long training job.
As I mentioned we do 50 epochs,
and so if we scroll
all the way to
the bottom to find out
how our training job did,
we can see that when we use
the default values for
MXNet's optimization routine,
we really only get an accuracy of
about 53 percent
which isn't great.
So C4 has a very hard problem
but we should still
try and do better.
So let's see if we can change
the values for learning
rate momentum and
weight decay from
the default values
to something else to
get a better result.
So the first thing
that we'll do is do
a random search
hyperparameter tuning.
As we mentioned it seems
naive but it performs
surprisingly well and it's
a very good baseline for how good
another hyperparameter
tuning model does.
So we've created
this simple random
tuner.py script that has
a few helper functions
that we'll need.
We start out by defining
a few classes for
categorical integer parameters
and we can use parameters,
where we can specify
the ranges or
distinct values
that each parameter
should be allowed to take
in that random search.
Now we have two other functions,
one that takes in the
hyperparameters that you specify
and randomly samples
one of the values in the range or
distinct set that you've given,
and the second that
actually kicks off
the training jobs and
then kicks off many
of them each with
randomly sampled values
for the hyperparameters.
Then we have a couple
more functions
here to help us
analyze that output.
As we mentioned, logs
from training jobs and
SageMaker go to CloudWatch.
So we've created a couple
of functions to go scrape
those logs and pull
out using a regex,
the validation accuracy that we
saw at the bottom of
our last training job.
So in order to start using this,
we'll define one
more simple function
which is fit random.
This will take in a job name,
and hyperparameter dictionary,
and startup model training.
We set weight equals false here,
so that we can train as
many models in the
background is we'd like.
Now, we specify a dictionary
of hyperparameters.
Similar to above, we'll use
the same batch size of 1,024,
same number of epochs.
But this time, we're
going to define
our learning rate as taking
a value somewhere between
0.001 to an order of
magnitude smaller than
our first example and
somewhere between 0.5.
Then we'll define
momentum between 0.99,
which is a pretty wide spectrum
of possible values for that,
then wait to k
between 0 and 0.0.1.
So now we'll start
our random search,
and we're going to pass in
that function that
creates a training job,
our hyperparameters,
which have the defined
ranges in them,
how many jobs we
want to run at most,
and how many jobs we
want to run at once.
We could set this
max parallel jobs
to a 120 if we're
comfortable with
spinning up a 120 P3 ADX
large as all at one time.
But for the purposes
of this notebook,
will just set it to eight.
Once we submit that training job,
we can see that it's
going to kick off
a hundred and twenty
subsequent training jobs,
and now we can go
and summarize and
compare the validation
accuracy across all of
those training jobs that
we've kicked off with
random hyperparameter
values sampled
from the range as we specified.
So you can see, we've
used our other functions
table metrics and get
metrics to return a
Pandas DataFrame of
each training job and
the objective score.
So you can see that, at best,
we're over 20 percentage points
better than the default values,
which is a huge improvement
in accuracy for this problem.
However, at worst, we're
only 23 percent accurate.
So randomly sampling
hyperparameters I use,
it still gets a lot of
inaccurate results as well.
We're just barely better
than random guessing there.
So you can see that
there's a huge spectrum of
possible objective values based
on the hyperparameter values.
Had you inaccurately started
with the values that give you
23 percent accuracy as
your hyperparameters,
you would be doomed to
having poor performance.
The next thing that we'll look at
is hyperparameter relationships.
So we've created a scatter plot
of our objective function,
as well as each of
our hyperparameters,
learning rate momentum,
and weight decay.
You can see that as learning
rate increases, in general,
we're getting better
validation accuracy
until a certain point,
and then actually toward the end,
as the learning rate
gets too large,
we see a little bit
more volatility
in our potential accuracies.
Momentum, on the other hand,
has a little bit of
noise at low values,
maybe has a peak here
in terms of the best
value being somewhere around
0.8 and then quickly diminishes,
so this nonlinear effect
that we see of momentum.
In addition, weight decay
has not as much of a
noticeable effect,
and then we can see that
this last plot is about
the number of jobs,
and the job number,
and our objective.
You can see that
we don't actually
get any better over time.
We're randomly sampling.
This is exactly what
we would expect,
as we randomly sample
hyperparameter values,
sometimes our best job
might occur the first time
and sometimes it might
occur on a 120th job,
and we don't have much
control over that.
We can also see that
we're just randomly
sampling the
hyperparameter values
relative to themselves.
We're not taking into account
that learning rate and momentum
are actually related
to one another,
so we're just randomly
trying values.
Now, let's see what
happens when we tune
with SageMaker
Automated Model Tuning.
As we mentioned, we use
a Gaussian process
regression model to predict
what good hyperparameters
values might
be and Bayesian Optimization,
which does a good
job of exploring
and exploiting
potential optimists.
The tuner that we have built is
built into the
SageMaker Python SDK,
so we imported that at the top.
We can start by just defining
this new MXNet estimator,
again we pass the
same training script,
the same role, instance
count and instance type.
We defined our two static
hyperparameters here.
So we defined 1,024
as our batch size and
50 is our epochs again,
and now we'll move on to
actually defining our
hyperparameter ranges.
So you can see that the classes
here function very similarly.
Random tuner was written
with this in mind to
take a similar format
to how the SageMaker
Python SDK works.
We define the minimum value
of our learning rate and
the maximum value in this
continuous parameter class.
So we next create an
objective metrics.
So we define what we want
our objective metric to be.
So that's validation accuracy,
and we write the Regex in order
to pass that from our
CloudWatch logs here.
Now, we create a tuner object
from the SageMaker Python SDK,
we pass it our estimator,
our information,
our objective metrics, and
our hyperparameter ranges
that we want to test.
We also pass in the max jobs
and the max parallel jobs.
As you can see here, we've
defined a much smaller number
of jobs because
SageMaker Automated
Model Tuning is going to
be much more effective than
random search at finding
a potential good value
for objective metric.
We've to find a
much smaller number
of parallel jobs as well.
So instead of eight,
we're not training two.
That's important for SageMaker
Automated Model Tuning
because we learn
from our past runs,
so it's important that
we not try to do too
many of those in
parallel because we may
increase how fast we do
the overall tuning job,
but we may lose out on accuracy,
as we can't predict
far enough ahead.
The next step is to
summarize accuracy
from our SageMaker Model
Tuning jobs after that's run.
You can see again, we have
a final objective value
of actually 74 percent,
so better within 30
jobs than we've found
within a hundred and twenty
jobs of random search.
We have a worst
performance of 0.41,
so still better than
our worst training
job in random search.
So it's important to
realize that SageMaker is
actively trying to test good
hyperparameter combinations,
and so in the worst case,
it's probably going
to do better, and in
far fewer training jobs
with one-fourth of
the training jobs,
we actually found
a model that has
better accuracy
than random search.
Now if we compare
the hyperparameter values
across training jobs,
we see the same
relationship between
our objective metric and
hyperparameter values,
except there seems
to be less noise,
and the hyperparameters
themselves don't have as random
of a scattering of values
relative to one another.
That's because, when we are
trying to explore that space,
we're looking to adjust
multiple hyperparameter
values at one time,
and understand the relationships
between those things.
So we can also see up here that,
in general, our accuracy
is getting more
consistent and
improving over time.
So that's another feature of
SageMaker Automated Model
Tuning is that as it learns,
which hyperparameter
values are successful,
it will start exploiting that
and fitting ever better models.
So in conclusion, we've seen
that hyperparameter tuning is
a very important aspect
of machine learning.
If we do it naively,
it can be quite costly.
It can be four times
more jobs to do
random search than it was to
use SageMaker Automated
Model Tuning.
If you wanted to extend on
this, what we've done today,
you could try and
other brute force
method like grid search
to see how that
performs relative to
both random search and
Automating Model Tuning.
You could try tuning a larger
number of hyperparameters,
you could use the first
round of tuning to inform
a second round or you could
also apply hyperparameter
tuning to your own problem.
If you'd like more information on
SageMaker Automated Model Tuning,
please see the
example notebooks and
documentation on AWS's website.
So thank you for
joining us today.
I'm David [inaudible] from
the Amazon SageMaker team.
We hope you enjoy SageMaker
Automated Model Tuning
and use it to improve
your machine learning
model fits today.